Image Processing is an invaluable tool in bio-medical research today. With the increasing size and higher quality of medical images, Image analysis systems become more popular and necessary. The cancer cell images analysis has been studied for years. Segmentation methods are considered as one of important techniques to perform cancer cell image analysis system. There are various solutions for segmenting the cancel cells that give similar outputs. On the other hand, it is rather hard to find the best solution.
In our case study, the PSU cell image analyzer [] is a computer-aided system for analyzing microscopic images. The system is performed an automatically counts the numbers of nuclear stained breast cancer and work as an assistant system in pathological analysis of breast cancer. Various ways have been proposed by researchers in order to perform the segmentation of breast cancer cell images. In 2007, they presented the use of color based segmentation using back-propagation neural networks []. This method shows how to separate positive and negative cancer cells from cell image background. In 2008, a new method has been proposed for cell segmentation using K-Mean Clustering [] which can be used improve the performance of previous researches. A new approach on segmenting breast cancer cells has been proposed to performs color space transformation, global thresholding method, and morphological operations in 2009 []. The newest method presented in 2010 used extracted feature technique to classify the cell type. These all proposed methods give similar results but their performances were slightly different. Analyzing these processes and comparing their performances manually take quite a long time. As a workflow system can help programmers to quickly design and compare processing steps, we explore and enhance Taverna Workbench, a workflow software for bioinformatics, to assist programmers in analyzing image processing algorithms. In this paper, our case study is the PSU cancer cell analysis.

In traditional programming, developers write the source code, compile it and run the executable program. When the program has some error, the developers have to recheck the source code, find the errors and rerun the program again even if they want to edit few parameters. It is even harder to practice this in image processing. There are many different algorithms, ways to design image processing processes that get the similarly proper results. However, it is time and resource consuming to tediously and manually compare the algorithms this way. In addition, the present images used in the cell analysis are quite large and need more computing resources to ease the computation.
Our research applies a workflow system in order to simplify and organize the process of designing steps. A workflow system helps the user to compose a workflow diagram as they want. Our case study focuses on improving the performance of the PSU cancer cell analysis system that developed since 2008. Our system will help the programmer to develop optimized workflow diagrams and improve the system performance based on the case study.
